README.md, before:

# linearmoney

Full multi-currency support for python.

---

Full Documentation: https://grammacc.github.io/linearmoney

License: [MIT](LICENSE)

This project uses [semantic versioning](https://semver.org).

## Description

linearmoney was created to make calculations and formatting with multiple currencies
in modern international applications easier and more reliable.

Key Features:

- Full support for arithmetic with monetary amounts in different currencies.
- Full support for non-destructive currency conversion.
- Full support for fractional currency rounding and fixed-point rounding.
- Full support for currency formatting and localization.
- No dependencies other than Python itself.
- Completely thread-safe.
- 100% Test and API Documentation coverage.

The linearmoney library takes a non-traditional approach to financial applications
by using linear algebra internally to ensure the correctness of monetary calculations
involving multiple currencies without passing this burden onto the programmer.
Understanding of linear algebra is not needed to use and understand the linearmoney
library, but an understanding of basic arithmetic with vectors is helpful for
understanding how the library works under the hood.

For a technical explanation of the motivation and philosophy behind linearmoney
as well as the complete pure-math model that defines the behaviors of the library, see
the [Linear Money Model](https://grammacc.github.io/linearmoney/linear_money_model.html) article.

linearmoney uses the amazing [Unicode CLDR-JSON](https://github.com/unicode-org/cldr-json)
data to provide data-driven interfaces for currency rounding, formatting, and localization.

### Disclaimer

This is a pre-release piece of software. The library is stable and well-tested, but
some breaking changes will occur before the first stable release.
Please keep this in mind if choosing to use this library in production.
Version 1.0.0 will mark the first stable release.

## Installation

> [!IMPORTANT]
> PyPi is not allowing new user registration at this time, so this package is not
> available on the package index yet.
> For now, the package can only be built from source.

linearmoney requires Python >= 3.12

From PyPi:

```bash
pip install linearmoney
```

From source:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/GrammAcc/linearmoney
cd linearmoney
poetry build
```

See the [poetry installation](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation) docs if
you don't have poetry installed yet.

Then to install (virtual environment recommended):

```bash
pip install path/to/cloned/repo
```

## Basic Usage


```pycon
>>> import linearmoney as lm
>>> fo = lm.vector.forex({"base": "usd", "rates": {"jpy": 100}})  # 1 USD -> 100 JPY
>>> sp = lm.vector.space(fo)
>>> cart = []
>>> local_milk_price = lm.vector.asset(4.32, "usd", sp)
>>> cart.append(local_milk_price)
>>> foreign_eggs_price = lm.vector.asset(545, "jpy", sp)
>>> cart.append(foreign_eggs_price)
>>> sales_tax = 0.095
>>> subtotal = sum(cart)
>>> total = subtotal + (subtotal * sales_tax)
>>> total_usd = lm.vector.evaluate(total, "usd", fo)
>>> total_jpy = lm.vector.evaluate(total, "jpy", fo)
>>> usd = lm.data.currency("usd")
>>> jpy = lm.data.currency("jpy")
>>> rounded_total_usd = lm.scalar.roundas(total_usd, usd)
>>> rounded_total_jpy = lm.scalar.roundas(total_jpy, jpy)
>>> en_US = lm.data.locale("en", "us")
>>> localized_total_usd = lm.scalar.l10n(rounded_total_usd, usd, en_US)
>>> localized_total_jpy = lm.scalar.l10n(rounded_total_jpy, jpy, en_US)
>>> print(localized_total_usd)
$10.70
>>> print(localized_total_jpy)
¥1,070

```

linearymoney uses a functional/procedural style where all objects are immutable, so
the code can become verbose compared to more idiomatic Python, but this also makes
the code more explicit and easier to test.

See the [Recipes](https://grammacc.github.io/linearmoney/recipes.html)
section of the user guide for
some examples of how to mitigate the verbosity of the library and other helpful patterns.

## Contributing

This project is in early development and is not yet accepting PRs. Once a contributing
workflow and CI pipeline are setup, we will start accepting public PRs.

## Roadmap

Version 1.0.0:
- [ ] Redesign locale/formatting data structure
- [ ] Redesign caching system
- [ ] Higher-order serialization interface
  - [ ] Serialization/deserialization of forex vectors
- [ ] Recipes to add
  - [ ] Use-cases without vectors
- [ ] Refactor CLDR data processing script
- [ ] Add contributing guidelines and setup CI

Commit message:

Prepare Release 0.1.0
I added a tox environment for testing against the built package after
publishing to TestPyPi and updated the README with more specific
information about the semver expectations prior to version 1.0.0.

I also removed the notice about not being able to create a PyPi package
since the restriction on new account creations was lifted today, so I am
now able to release to PyPi.

README.md, after:

# linearmoney

Full multi-currency support for python.

---

Full Documentation: https://grammacc.github.io/linearmoney

License: [MIT](LICENSE)

This project uses [semantic versioning](https://semver.org). However, this
is a pre-release piece of software, so until the first stable release, minor versions
may contain breaking changes. Version 1.0.0 will mark the first stable release, at
which point the regular rules of semver will apply and backwards-incompatible changes
will only be introduced in major versions.

## Description

linearmoney was created to make calculations and formatting with multiple currencies
in modern international applications easier and more reliable.

Key Features:

- Full support for arithmetic with monetary amounts in different currencies.
- Full support for non-destructive currency conversion.
- Full support for fractional currency rounding and fixed-point rounding.
- Full support for currency formatting and localization.
- No dependencies other than Python itself.
- Completely thread-safe.
- 100% Test and API Documentation coverage.

The linearmoney library takes a non-traditional approach to financial applications
by using linear algebra internally to ensure the correctness of monetary calculations
involving multiple currencies without passing this burden onto the programmer.
Understanding of linear algebra is not needed to use and understand the linearmoney
library, but an understanding of basic arithmetic with vectors is helpful for
understanding how the library works under the hood.

For a technical explanation of the motivation and philosophy behind linearmoney
as well as the complete pure-math model that defines the behaviors of the library, see
the [Linear Money Model](https://grammacc.github.io/linearmoney/linear_money_model.html) article.

linearmoney uses the amazing [Unicode CLDR-JSON](https://github.com/unicode-org/cldr-json)
data to provide data-driven interfaces for currency rounding, formatting, and localization.

## Installation

linearmoney requires Python >= 3.12

From PyPi:

```bash
pip install linearmoney
```

From source:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/GrammAcc/linearmoney
cd linearmoney
poetry build
```

See the [poetry installation](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation) docs if
you don't have poetry installed yet.

Then to install (virtual environment recommended):

```bash
pip install path/to/cloned/repo
```

## Basic Usage

```pycon
>>> import linearmoney as lm
>>> fo = lm.vector.forex({"base": "usd", "rates": {"jpy": 100}})  # 1 USD -> 100 JPY
>>> sp = lm.vector.space(fo)
>>> cart = []
>>> local_milk_price = lm.vector.asset(4.32, "usd", sp)
>>> cart.append(local_milk_price)
>>> foreign_eggs_price = lm.vector.asset(545, "jpy", sp)
>>> cart.append(foreign_eggs_price)
>>> sales_tax = 0.095
>>> subtotal = sum(cart)
>>> total = subtotal + (subtotal * sales_tax)
>>> total_usd = lm.vector.evaluate(total, "usd", fo)
>>> total_jpy = lm.vector.evaluate(total, "jpy", fo)
>>> usd = lm.data.currency("usd")
>>> jpy = lm.data.currency("jpy")
>>> rounded_total_usd = lm.scalar.roundas(total_usd, usd)
>>> rounded_total_jpy = lm.scalar.roundas(total_jpy, jpy)
>>> en_US = lm.data.locale("en", "us")
>>> localized_total_usd = lm.scalar.l10n(rounded_total_usd, usd, en_US)
>>> localized_total_jpy = lm.scalar.l10n(rounded_total_jpy, jpy, en_US)
>>> print(localized_total_usd)
$10.70
>>> print(localized_total_jpy)
¥1,070

```

linearymoney uses a functional/procedural style where all objects are immutable, so
the code can become verbose compared to more idiomatic Python, but this also makes
the code more explicit and easier to test.

See the [Recipes](https://grammacc.github.io/linearmoney/recipes.html)
section of the user guide for
some examples of how to mitigate the verbosity of the library and other helpful patterns.

## Contributing

This project is in early development and is not yet accepting PRs. Once a contributing
workflow and CI pipeline are setup, we will start accepting public PRs.

## Roadmap

Version 1.0.0:
- [ ] Redesign locale/formatting data structure
- [ ] Redesign caching system
- [ ] Higher-order serialization interface
  - [ ] Serialization/deserialization of forex vectors
- [ ] Recipes to add
  - [ ] Use-cases without vectors
- [ ] Refactor CLDR data processing script
- [ ] Add contributing guidelines and setup CI
